CHIEF COMPLAINT:,  Urinary retention.,HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: , This is a 66-year-old gentleman status post deceased donor kidney transplant in 12/07, who has had recurrent urinary retention issues since that time.  Most recently, he was hospitalized on 02/04/08 for acute renal insufficiency, which was probably secondary to dehydration.  He was seen by urology again at this visit for urinary retention.  He had been seen by urology during a previous hospitalization and he passed his voiding trial at the time of his stent removal on 01/22/08.  Cystoscopy showed at that time obstructive BPH.  He was started on Flomax at the time of discharge from the hospital.  During the most recent readmission on 02/04/08, he went back into urinary retention and he had had a Foley placed at the outside hospital.,REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:,  Positive for blurred vision, nasal congestion, and occasional constipation.  Denies chest pain, shortness of breath or any rashes or lesions.  All other systems were reviewed and found to be negative.,PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:,1.  End-stage renal disease, now status post deceased donor kidney transplant in 12/07.,2.  Hypertension.,3.  History of nephrolithiasis.,4.  Gout.,5.  BPH.,6.  DJD.,PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:,1.  Deceased donor kidney transplant in 12/07.,2.  Left forearm and left upper arm fistula placements.,FAMILY HISTORY:  ,Significant for mother with an unknown type of cancer, possibly colon cancer or lung and prostate problems on his father side of the family.  He does not know whether his father side of the family had any history of prostate cancer.,HOME MEDICATIONS:,1.  Norvasc.,2.  Toprol 50 mg.,3.  Clonidine 0.2 mg.,4.  Hydralazine.,5.  Flomax.,6.  Allopurinol.,7.  Sodium bicarbonate.,8.  Oxybutynin.,9.  Coumadin.,10.  Aspirin.,11.  Insulin 70/30.,12.  Omeprazole.,13.  Rapamune.,14.  CellCept.,15.  Prednisone.,16.  Ganciclovir.,17.  Nystatin swish and swallow.,18.  Dapsone.,19.  Finasteride.,ALLERGIES:,  No known drug allergies.,PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:,GENERAL:  This is a well-developed, well-nourished male, in no acute distress.  VITAL SIGNS:  Temperature 98, blood pressure 129/72, pulse 96, and weight 175.4 pounds.  LUNGS:  Clear to auscultation bilaterally.  CARDIOVASCULAR:  Regular rate and rhythm with a 3/6 systolic murmur.  ABDOMEN:  Right lower quadrant incision site scar well healed.  Nontender to palpation.  Liver and spleen not enlarged.  No hernias appreciated.  PENIS:  Normal male genitalia.  No lesions appreciated on the penis.  Previous DRE showed the prostate of approximately 40 grams and no nodules.  Foley in place and draining clear urine.,The patient underwent fill and pull study, in which his bladder tolerated 120 ml of sterile water passively filling his bladder.  He spontaneously voided without the Foley 110 mL.,ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:  ,This is a 66-year-old male with signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hypertrophy, who has had recurrent urinary retention since the kidney transplant in 12/07.  He passed his fill and pull study and was thought to self-catheterize in the event that he does incur urinary retention again.  

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: ,Degenerative arthritis of the left knee.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:, Degenerative arthritis of the left knee.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED: , Total left knee replacement on 08/19/03.  The patient also underwent a bilateral right total knee replacement in the same sitting and that will be dictated by Dr. X.,TOURNIQUET TIME: , 76 minutes.,BLOOD LOSS: , 150 cc.,ANESTHESIA:  ,General.,IMPLANT USED FOR PROCEDURE:,  NexGen size F femur on the left with #8 size peg tibial tray, a #12 mm polyethylene insert and this a cruciate retaining component.  The patella on the left was not resurfaced.,GROSS INTRAOPERATIVE FINDINGS: , Degenerative ware of three compartments of the trochlea, the medial, as well as the lateral femoral condyles as well was the plateau.  The surface of the patella was with a minimal ware and minimal osteophytes and we decided not to resurface the patellar component.,HISTORY:  ,This is a 69-year-old male with complaints of bilateral knee pain for several years and increased intensity in the past several months where it has affected his activities of daily living.  He attempted conservative treatment, which includes anti-inflammatory medications as well as cortisone and Synvisc.  This has only provided him with temporary relief.  It is for that reason, he is elected to undergo the above-named procedure.,All risks as well as complications were discussed with the patient, which include, but are not limited to infection, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, need for further surgery, and further pain.  He has agreed to undergo this procedure and a consent was obtained preoperatively.,PROCEDURE: , The patient was wheeled back to operating room #2 at ABCD General Hospital on 08/19/03 and was placed supine on the operating room table.  At this time, a nonsterile tourniquet was placed on the left upper thigh, but not inflated.  An Esmarch was then used to exsanguinate the extremity and the left extremity was then prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion for this procedure.  The tourniquet was then inflated to 325 mmHg.  At this time, a standard midline incision was made towards the total knee.  We did discuss preoperatively for a possible unicompartmental knee replacement for this patient, but he did have radiographic evidence of chondrocalcinosis of the lateral meniscus.  We did start off with a small midline skin incision in case we were going to do a unicompartmental.  Once we exposed the medial parapatellar mini-arthrotomy and visualized the lateral femoral condyle, we decided that this patient would not be an optimal candidate for unicompartmental knee replacement.  It is for this reason that we extended the incision and underwent with the total knee replacement.  Once the full medial parapatellar arthrotomy was performed with the subperiosteal dissection of the proximal tibia in order to evert the patella.  Once the patella was everted, we then used a drill to cannulate the distal femoral canal in order to place the intramedullary guide.  A Charnley awl was then used to remove all the intramedullary contents and they were removed from the knee.  At this time, a femoral sizer was then placed with reference to the posterior condyles and we measured a size F. Once this was performed, three degrees of external rotation was then drilled into the condyle in alignment with the epicondyles of the femur.  At this time, the intramedullary guide was then inserted and placed in three degrees of external rotation.  Our anterior cutting guide was then placed and an anterior cut was performed with careful protection of the soft tissues.  Next, this was removed and the distal femoral cutting guide was then placed in five degrees of valgus.  This was pinned to the distal femur and with careful protection of the collateral ligaments, a distal femoral cut was performed.  At this time, the intramedullary guide was removed and a final cutting block was placed.  This was placed in the center on the distal femur with 1 mm to 2 mm laterally translated for better patellar tracking.  At this time, the block was pinned and screwed in place with spring pins with careful protection of the soft tissues.  An oscillating saw was then used to resect the posterior and anterior cutting blocks with anterior and posterior chamfer as well as the notch cut.  Peg holes were then drilled.,The block was then removed and an osteotome was then used to remove all the bony cut pieces.  At this time with a better exposure of the proximal tibia, we placed external tibial guide.  This was placed with longitudinal axis of the tibia and carefully positioned in order to obtain an optimal cut for the proximal tibia.  At this time with careful soft tissue retraction and protection, an oscillating saw was used to make a proximal tibial osteotomy.  Prior to the osteotomy, the cut was checked with a depth gauge in order to assure appropriate bony resection.  At this time, a _blunt Kocher and Bovie cautery were used to remove the proximal tibial cut, which had soft tissue attachments.  Once this was removed, we then implanted our trial components of size F to the femur and a size 8 mm tibial tray with 12 mm plastic articulating surface.  The knee was taken through range of motion and revealed excellent femorotibial articulation.  The patella did tend to sublux somewhat laterally with extremes of flexion and it was for this reason, we performed a minimal small incision lateral retinacular release.  Distal lateral patella was tracked more uniformly within the patellar groove of the prosthesis.  At this time, an intraoperative x-ray was performed, which revealed excellent alignment with no varus angulation especially of the whole femur and tibial alignment and tibial cut.  At this time, the prosthesis was removed.  A McGill retractor was then reinserted and replaced peg tibial tray in order to peg the proximal tibia.  Once the drill holes were performed, we then copiously irrigated the wound and then suctioned it dry to get ready and prepped for cementation of the drilled components.  At this time, polymethyl methacrylate cement was then mixed.  The cement was placed on the tibial surface as well as the underneath surface of the component.  The component was then placed and impacted with excess cement removed.  In a similar fashion, the femoral component was also placed.  A 12 mm plastic tray was then placed and the leg held in full extension and compression in order to obtain adequate bony cement content.  Once the cement was fully hardened, the knee was flexed and a small osteotome was used to remove any extruding cement from around the prosthesis of the bone.  Once this was performed, copious irrigation was used to irrigate the wound and the wound was then suctioned dry.  The knee was again taken through range of motion with a 12 mm plastic as well as #14.  The #14 appeared to be a bit too tight especially in extremes of flexion.  We decided to go with a #12 mm polyethylene tray.  At this time, this was placed to the tibial articulation and then left in place.  This was rechecked with careful attention to detail with checking no soft tissue interpositioned between the polyethylene tray and the metal tray of the tibia.  The knee was again taken through range of motion and revealed excellent tracking of the patella with good femur and tibial contact.  A drain was placed and cut to length.,At this time, the knee was irrigated and copiously suction dried.  #1-0 Ethibond suture was then used to approximate the medial parapatellar arthrotomy in figure-of-eight fashion.  A tight capsular closure was performed.  This was reinforced with a #1-0 running Vicryl suture.  At this time, copious irrigation was used to irrigate the superficial wound.  #2-0 Vicryl was used to approximate the wound with figure-of-eight inverted suture.  The skin was then approximated with staples.  The leg was then cleansed.  

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: , Herniated nucleus pulposus, L5-S1 on the left with severe weakness and intractable pain.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,  Herniated nucleus pulposus, L5-S1 on the left with severe weakness and intractable pain.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Injection for myelogram.,2.  Microscopic-assisted lumbar laminectomy with discectomy at L5-S1 on the left on 08/28/03.,BLOOD LOSS: , Approximately 25 cc.,ANESTHESIA: , General.,POSITION:,  Prone on the Jackson table.,INTRAOPERATIVE FINDINGS:,  Extruded nucleus pulposus at the level of L5-S1.,HISTORY: , This is a 34-year-old male with history of back pain with radiation into the left leg in the S1 nerve root distribution.  The patient was lifting at work on 08/27/03 and felt immediate sharp pain from his back down to the left lower extremity.  He denied any previous history of back pain or back surgeries.  Because of his intractable pain as well as severe weakness in the S1 nerve root distribution, the patient was aware of all risks as well as possible complications of this type of surgery and he has agreed to pursue on.  After an informed consent was obtained, all risks as well as complications were discussed with the patient.  ,PROCEDURE DETAIL:  ,He was wheeled back to Operating Room #5 at ABCD General Hospital on 08/28/03.  After a general anesthetic was administered, a Foley catheter was inserted.,The patient was then turned prone on the Jackson table.  All of his bony prominences were well-padded.  At this time, a myelogram was then performed.  After the lumbar spine was prepped, a #20 gauge needle was then used to perform a myelogram.  The needle was localized to the level of L3-L4 region.  Once inserted into the thecal sac, we immediately got cerebrospinal fluid through the spinal needle.  At this time, approximately 10 cc of Conray injected into the thecal sac.  The patient was then placed in the reversed Trendelenburg position in order to assist with distal migration of the contrast.  The myelogram did reveal that there was some space occupying lesion, most likely disc at the level of L5-S1 on the left.  There was a lack of space filling defect on the left evident on both the AP and the lateral projections using C-arm fluoroscopy.  At this point, the patient was then fully prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion for this procedure for a microdiscectomy.  A long spinal needle was then inserted into region of surgery on the right.  The surgery was going to be on the left.  Once the spinal needle was inserted, a localizing fluoroscopy was then used to assure appropriate location and this did confirm that we were at the L5-S1 nerve root region.  At this time, an approximately 2 cm skin incision was made over the lumbar region, dissected down to the deep lumbar fascia.  At this time, a Weitlaner was inserted.  Bovie cautery was used to obtain hemostasis.  We further continued through the deep lumbar fascia and dissected off the short lumbar muscles off of the spinous process and the lamina.  A Cobb elevator was then used to elevate subperiosteally off of all the inserting short lumbar muscles off of the spinous process as well as the lamina on the left-hand side.  At this time, a Taylor retractor was then inserted and held there for retraction.  Suction as well as Bovie cautery was used to obtain hemostasis.  At this time, a small Kerrison Rongeur was used to make a small lumbar laminotomy to expose our window for the nerve root decompression.  Once the laminotomy was performed, a small _______ curette was used to elevate the ligamentum flavum off of the thecal sac as well as the adjoining nerve roots.  Once the ligamentum flavum was removed, we immediately identified a piece of disc material floating around outside of the disc space over the S1 nerve root, which was compressive.  We removed the extruded disc with further freeing up of the S1 nerve root.  A nerve root retractor was then placed.  Identification of disc space was then performed.  A #15 blade was then inserted and small a key hole into the disc space was then performed with a #15 blade.  A small pituitary was then inserted within the disc space and more disc material was freed and removed.  The part of the annulus fibrosis were also removed in addition to the loose intranuclear pieces of disc.  Once this was performed, we removed the retraction off the nerve root and the nerve root appeared to be free with pulsatile visualization of the vasculature indicating that the nerve root was essentially free.,At this time, copious irrigation was used to irrigate the wound.  We then performed another look to see if any loose pieces of disc were extruding from the disc space and only small pieces were evident and they were then removed with the pituitary rongeur.  At this time, a small piece of Gelfoam was then used to cover the exposed nerve root.  We did not have any dural leaks during this case.  #1-0 Vicryl was then used to approximate the deep lumbar fascia, #2-0 Vicryl was used to approximate the superficial lumbar fascia, and #4-0 running Vicryl for the subcutaneous skin.  Sterile dressings were then applied.  The patient was then carefully slipped over into the supine position, extubated and transferred to Recovery in stable condition.  At this time, we are still waiting to assess the patient postoperatively to assure no neurological sequela postsurgically are found and also to assess his pain level.

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:,1.  Acute pain.,2.  Fever postoperatively.,POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:,1.  Acute pain.,2.  Fever postoperatively.,3.  Hemostatic uterine perforation.,4.  No bowel or vascular trauma.,PROCEDURE PERFORMED:,1.  Diagnostic laparoscopy.,2.  Rigid sigmoidoscopy by Dr. X.,ANESTHESIA: , General endotracheal.,COMPLICATIONS: , None.,ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: , Scant.,SPECIMEN:,  None.,INDICATIONS:  ,This is a 17-year-old African-American female, gravida-1, para-1, and had a hysteroscopy and dilation curettage on 09/05/03.  The patient presented later that evening after having increasing abdominal pain, fever and chills at home with a temperature up to 101.2.  The patient denied any nausea, vomiting or diarrhea.  She does complain of some frequent urination.  Her vaginal bleeding is minimal.,FINDINGS: , On bimanual exam, the uterus is approximately 6-week size, anteverted, and freely mobile with no adnexal masses appreciated.  On laparoscopic exam, there is a small hemostatic perforation noted on the left posterior aspect of the uterus.  There is approximately 40 cc of serosanguineous fluid in the posterior cul-de-sac.  The bilateral tubes and ovaries appeared normal.  There is no evidence of endometriosis in the posterior cul-de-sac or along the bladder flap.  There is no evidence of injury to the bowel or pelvic sidewall.  The liver margin, gallbladder and remainder of the bowel including the appendix appeared normal.,PROCEDURE: , After consent was obtained, the patient was taken to the Operating Room where general anesthetic was administered.  The patient was placed in the dorsal lithotomy position and prepped and draped in the normal sterile fashion.  A sterile speculum was placed in the patient's vagina and the anterior lip of the cervix was grasped with a vulsellum tenaculum.  The uterine manipulator was then placed into the patient's cervix and the vulsellum tenaculum and sterile speculum were removed.  Gloves were changed and attention was then turned to the abdomen where approximately 10 mm transverse infraumbilical incision was made.  Veress needle was placed through this incision and the gas turned on.  When good flow and low abdominal pressures were noted, the gas was turned up and the abdomen was allowed to insufflate.  A 11 mm trocar was then placed through this incision.  The camera was placed with the above findings noted.  A 5 mm step trocar was placed 2 cm superior to the pubic bone and along the midline.  A blunt probe was placed through this trocar to help for visualization of the pelvic and abdominal organs.  The serosanguineous fluid of the cul-de-sac was aspirated and the pelvis was copiously irrigated with sterile saline.  At this point, Dr. X was consulted.  He performed a rigid sigmoidoscopy, please see his dictation for further details.  There does not appear to be any evidence of colonic injury.  The saline in the pelvis was then suctioned out using Nezhat-Dorsey.  All instruments were removed.  The 5 mm trocar was removed under direct visualization with excellent hemostasis noted.  The camera was removed and the abdomen was allowed to desufflate.  The 11 mm trocar introducer was replaced and the trocar removed.  The skin was then closed with #4-0 undyed Vicryl in a subcuticular fashion.  Approximately 10 cc of 0.25% Marcaine was injected into the incision sites for postoperative pain relief.  Steri-Strips were then placed across the incision.  The uterine manipulator was then removed from the patient's cervix with excellent hemostasis noted.  The patient tolerated the procedure well.  Sponge, lap, and needle counts were correct at the end of the procedure.  The patient was taken to the recovery room in satisfactory condition.,She will be followed immediately postoperatively within the hospital and started on IV antibiotics.

